Param Mehta
San Francisco, CA | LinkedIn | Email | GitHub | +1 (415)-792-7813
Data Scientist with two years of experience in machine learning, demand forecasting and LLM applications
EDUCATION
Master of Science in Data Science | Jul 2023 - Jun 2024
University of San Francisco, San Francisco, United States of America
Bachelor of Technology in Data Science | Jul 2019 - Jul 2023
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering (NMIMS), Mumbai, India
EXPERIENCE
Machine Learning Engineer, TruckX Inc | Oct 2023 - Present
Building a customer support chatbot that is expected to automate the query resolution of more than 5000 app users,
bringing down average response time by 66%. See Blog post
Performed OCR over 100 pages of unstructured pdfs using Google's Cloud Vision API. Implemented a Retrieval
Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline through Langchain using the parsed documents and a quantized Llama 2 model.
Developed a UAT application for the support team using Django, deployed through Docker and Kubernetes. The app
records conversations and quantitative feedback that will be used for evaluation while finetuning the system.
Data Scientist Intern, Mondelez International | Dec 2022 - May 2023
Trained forecasting models for 156 SKUs to explore the impact of different pricing variables on demand in India.
Achieved an increase of 2% in the monthly inventory turnover rate for Silk portfolio (premium chocolates) for Q1 2023.
Performed similar experiments to model grammage sensitivity, revising volume estimates of Q1 2023 by 6000 tones.
Utilized PySpark's SparkML to implement the forecasting pipeline which involved predicting the decomposed
components using an ensemble of XGBoost and ARIMA models.
Data Scientist Intern, AkzoNobel Coatings International | Jan 2022 - Nov 2022
Developed a classification pipeline to improve and automate the color-matching process for solid coating products.
Reduced the false positive rate by 54%, resulting in fewer product returns and saving potential reiteration costs.
Inference time was 3x faster than existing human-evaluated quality tests, leading to faster production cycles.
Collaborated with a team of 3 domain experts to process data, engineer relevant features, and perform EDA.
Trained various boosting models and Neural Networks on spectroscopy data of 5 different coating products.
PROJECTS
■
Product Category Classification | Mar 2022
Developed a multi-modal neural network to classify product categories for an e-commerce website. Trained on 20000
instances across 10 classes, the system can be scaled to further categories, elevating product discoverability and sales.
Trained a text pipeline for product descriptions using Glove Embeddings and Bidirectional LSTM and a vision pipeline
for product images using MobileNet. Integrated the concatenated embeddings of both with dense layers.
Achieved a superior F1 score of 0.92 on the test dataset compared to individual text(0.89) and vision models(0.86).
Predicting YouTube Video Likes | Feb 2022
Winner of Kaggle Pogchamp competition with the objective of predicting video likes using descriptions and metadata
Our solution, that outperformed 88 competing teams, involved an ensemble of CatBoost models, extensive feature
engineering with date and language features, and training on a joint feature space of tf-idf vectors and tabular data.
Linkedin Job Recommender | Feb 2024
Utilized Airflow to periodically scrap Linkedin jobs and recommend top 10 listings most similar to uploaded resume.
Used Pyspark to clean job descriptions, MongoDB to store embeddings and Gemini to summarize top jobs' similarities.
Online Investing Platform | Jan 2021
Developed an investing web app that enables users to track live prices, analyze price charts, and maintain a portfolio.
Used MySQL for querying the back-end database, Flask to build the web app, and Bootstrap to design the interface.
SKILLS
■
I
Python, SQL, Time Series Analysis, Relational Databases, Natural Language Processing, GCP, Tableau, Pyspark,
Langchain, Scikit-Learn, Pandas, Seaborn, TensorFlow, PyTorch, Flask, Django, Psycopg, NLTK, OpenCV, Selenium